RFC: Add a semantically non-blocking lint level (#3730)
rust-lang/rfcs: text/3730-nit-lint-level.md

Add a new visible lint level below `warn` to allow linters to act like a pair-programmer / code-reviewer where feedback is evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
- `cargo` does not display these lints by default, requiring an opt-in
- This RFC assumes LSPs/IDEs will opt-in
- CIs could opt-in and open issues in the code review to show nits introduced in the current PR but not block merge on them

There is no expectation that crates will be `nit`-free.

*Note:* The name `nit` is being used for illustrative purposes and is assumed to not be the final choice

*Note:* This RFC leaves the determination of what lints will be `nit` by
default to the respective teams.  Any lints referenced in this document are
for illustrating the intent of this feature and how teams could reason about
this new lint level.

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

By its name and literal usage, the `warn` level is non-blocking.
However, most projects treat `warn` as a soft-error.
It doesn't block for local development but CI blocks it from being merged.
This convention is not new with the Rust community; many C++ projects have take
this approach before Rust came to be with "warnings clean" being a goal for

> correctness.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
correctness. In addition, many Rust users push for warning-free code based on
bad experiences with past projects that pervasively ignored warnings.
```

Author: While its fairly minor change, I'm not sure what this change would buy us.  It starts off talking about the Rust community and then brings up C++ to show that this has a longer history / prior art.

Bringing back up Rust projects doing this seems redundant.

Reviewer 2: doesn't that just give nit fatigue?

Like fundamentally if there's a lot of code you're in charge of, and it's doing something we don't detect, then we detect it, you'll have a lot to fix. and it doesn't matter if we call that new check a nit or a warning. if it suddenly says there's 4000 "whatever" in your project, you'll sigh deeply.

Author: The intention of this is that maintainers don't feel the need to know how many "whatever"s they have in a project.  Ideally, both the code author (though LSP) and the code reviewer (through code review integration) see the feedback and decide whether it should be acted on. Or put another way, these are only of interest for new code and can be ignored otherwise.

The one exception is if you are using this to adopt a new lint gradually.  In that case you can either fix everything in which case you only care about the numbers for that specific lint going down or you only worry about new code, assuming the existing code is battle tested enough and through evolution will eventually be rewritten in which case you still don't care about the metric.

Reviewer 2: I understand your intent, but absolutely nothing in this RFC actually does that. Nowhere does this RFC actually explain how "new code" is automatically detected, and nits only run against that. Are you assuming that it only scans for nits in the current git diff, or something like that? Such a system needs to be explained in the RFC if you're hanging the design on it.
* What about people not using git?
* what about people not using any revision control at all? does this never show up in the rust playground since that doesn't use version control?

Reviewer: @epage This resolves my concern. I'll make a further comment separately about the wording.

Author: @Lokathor moved this to a thread at https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3730/files#r1848991532 as this was for a specific wording change which has been resolved and I don't want to lose track of this thread!

This should be reserved for when there is no point building or testing anything further because of how broken the code is.

`warn` generally has the semantics of a soft-error.
Its non-blocking locally but will be blocked when the code is merged upstream.
This should be used when eventual correctness or consistency is desired.

`nit` is for coding suggestions for users that may or may not improve the code or may not need to be done yet.

`allow` is for when there is no right answer (e.g. mutually exclusive lints), there are false positives, the lint is overly noisy, or the lint is of limited value.

*Note:* This is for communicating the intent of this RFC and to get people started with this new feature and is not meant to precisely redefine the
[lint levels](https://rustc-dev-guide.rust-lang.org/diagnostics.html#diagnostic-levels).

# Reference-level explanation
[reference-level-explanation]: #reference-level-explanation

## Rustc

Rustc focuses on the mechanics of a new, visible lint level `nit`.

Add support for the new lint:
```rust
#![nit(deprecated)]
```
```console
$ rustc --nit deprecated ...
```
```console
$ rustc -Ndeprecated ...
```

> This will be rendered like a `note:`.

Reviewer: I don't think this should be prescriptive on how this should be displayed, beyond saying that it will be labeled as a nit, and that the machine-readable versions of `rustc` output will provide it and identify it as a nit. (The machine-readable bit is particularly important given the use case of having tools obtain-but-hide these by default, for later display.)

Author: 91be5d2  is less prescriptive

Reviewer: LGTM

- Hint

with the following diagnostic tags:
- Unnecessary
- Deprecated

# Unresolved questions
[unresolved-questions]: #unresolved-questions

- `CARGO_BUILD_NITS=nit` is modeled off of `CARGO_BUILD_WARNINGS=warn` which is just saying "treat X level violations as Y level"
  - `CARGO_BUILD_WARNINGS=warn` is "weird" but shouldn't show up too often as its the default
  - However, the frequency is swapped with `CARGO_BUILD_NITS=nit`
  - We may also want the terms to be consistent across the different level-control fields
  - Reminder: `CARGO_BUILD_WARNINGS` is unstable and we can still change it

## Naming

The name should clearly communicate that there is no authoriative weight
encouraging them to resolve them but that it is left to them and their reviewer
to weigh whether to resolve or ignore them.

The verb form is used for:
- attribute
- long flag

Lint names are expected to be read with their level for what should be done, e.g.
- `deny(let_and_return)` -> "deny the use of let-and-return in this code"
- `warn(let_and_return)` -> "warn on the use of let-and-return in this code"

The noun form is used for:
- Dynamic lint group

Options
- `#[nit]` / `--nit` / `-N` / `-Wnits`

>   - Unsure how to word this as a sentence

Author: @joshtriplett 

> I think nit is a fine name.

Of course someone was ok with my bike-shed avoidance name :).  I guess I should have been more out there.

When I first switched to a company that used `nit` in code review, it felt odd and the intent wasn't to clear.  Was this a nitpick?  If they recognize it as such, why is it posted?

Also, not quite sure how to put to translate `#[nit(let_and_return)]` into a sentence in the same way as the other levels.

Reviewer: That's fair: unlike `error`, `warn`, and `allow`, it isn't a verb.

Reviewer 3: What about `hint`? Which is a verb, and similar to python type *hints*, you get a suggestion, and it's usually opt in to adopt.

In this case the IDE would give you hints. 

```cargo LEVEL=hint```

Author: @woile I've forked this thread over on the item for "hint" so we can keep this one focused.

Reviewer: Feel free to resolve this thread in favor of the more general bikeshed. The point of this comment was "don't rule out `nit` as a possible name".

Reviewer 4: nitpick is a verb.

Nitpick might be better, since reader may not be familiar with the use of "nit" as a shorthand for nitpick

  - However, the frequency is swapped with `CARGO_BUILD_NITS=nit`
  - We may also want the terms to be consistent across the different level-control fields
  - Reminder: `CARGO_BUILD_WARNINGS` is unstable and we can still change it

## Naming

The name should clearly communicate that there is no authoriative weight
encouraging them to resolve them but that it is left to them and their reviewer
to weigh whether to resolve or ignore them.

The verb form is used for:
- attribute
- long flag

Lint names are expected to be read with their level for what should be done, e.g.
- `deny(let_and_return)` -> "deny the use of let-and-return in this code"
- `warn(let_and_return)` -> "warn on the use of let-and-return in this code"

The noun form is used for:
- Dynamic lint group

Options
- `#[nit]` / `--nit` / `-N` / `-Wnits`
  - Unsure how to word `nit(let_and_return)` as a sentence like the other lint levels
- `#[note]` / `--note` / `-N` / `-Wnotes`
  - "note the let-and-return in this code"
- `#[notice]` / `--notice` / `-N` / `-Wnotices`
  - "notice the let-and-return in this code"
- `#[mention]` / `--mention` / `-M` / `-Wmentions`

>   - "mention the let-and-return in this code"

Author: @clarfonthey 

> Not to focus too much on the name, but `mention` might be another option for it. It goes well with the ordering of deny, warn, mention, allow.

Author: This would likely be the case for any standard communication word (`note`, `notice`, `inform`).

In part, it depends on how you frame it as rustc does communucate these by default and there are recommended workflows where these do get communicated.

`consider` seems immune *but* it has a problem with the assumed short-flag is already in use.

`hint` depends on how you word it, see https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3730/files#r1848937892 for more.

Author: Looking at [synonyms of `consider`](https://www.thesaurus.com/browse/consider)
- A non-serious option is `contemplate` :)
- `scrutinize` might work
- `inspect might work

Reviewer: `info` seems rather nice along several axes: it reads reasonably well if you write `info(some_lint_name)`, it describes the concept of being informational, and it doesn't imply how it'll be displayed.

Reviewer 5: I'm +1 on `info` (although I'm partial to `note` as it already has established meaning in the output we have today, but that might be a double edge sword if some `note`s can be controlled by the user and others can't, but we already have that for lints in general with `warning` and `error`...)

Reviewer 6: `info` would also be parallel to Rust's logging ecosystem, which generally uses it for the [log level](https://docs.rs/log/latest/log/enum.Level.html) below `warn`. Log levels aren't a perfect analogue of lint levels, but this parallelism could still be good.

I'd also be in favor of `note`.

Reviewer 2: existing lints/errors have help and note text. we can at least pick a new name.

Author: My concern with `info` is that it is a noun and  runs into problems with the level/lint naming rules at https://rustc-dev-guide.rust-lang.org/diagnostics.html#lint-naming

> The basic rule is: the lint name should make sense when read as "allow lint-name" or "allow lint-name items". For example, "allow deprecated items" and "allow dead_code" makes sense, while "allow unsafe_block" is ungrammatical (should be plural).

This is why in the RFC body I switched the level name to `inform`.

Reviewer 4: I'll point out that nitpick is also a verb:

> find or point out minor faults in a fussy or pedantic way.

Pedantic would also seem appropriate, but that is an adjective, not a verb, and the verb form "pedantize" is unusual, and doesn't quite fit.

- `#[consider]` / `--consider` / ~~`-C` (taken)~~ / `-Wconsiderations` (IntelliJ)
  - "consider the let-and-return in this code"
  - Verb and noun have a larger divergence
- `#[inform]` / `--inform` / `-I` / `-Winformation` (LSP)
  - "inform you of the let-and-return in this code"
  - Verb and noun have a larger divergence
- `#[hint]` / `--hint` / `-H` / `-Whints` (LSP)

>   - "hint of a let-and-return in this code"

Author: @woile 

> What about `hint`? Which is a verb, and similar to python type _hints_, you get a suggestion, and it's usually opt in to adopt.
> 
> In this case the IDE would give you hints.
> 
> `cargo LEVEL=hint`

Reviewer 7: I worry it would be confusable with diagnostic hints.

- `#[remark]` / `--remark` / `-R` (supposedly LLVM) / `-Wremarks`
  - "remark on the let-and-return in this code"
- ~~`#[suggest]` / `--suggest` / `-S` / `-Wsuggestions`~~
  - When read with the lint name, it sounds like its to find where you *should* do it rather than finding where you are doing it
  - Verb and noun have a larger divergence

> 

Reviewer 3: last option I can think of: `cue`, which for me, it's quite an empty word, not used much, and it's not that far from hint/suggest.

> cue on the let-and-return in this code

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

Add a new visible lint level below `warn` to allow linters to act like a pair-programmer / code-reviewer where feedback is evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
- `cargo` does not display these lints by default, requiring an opt-in
- This RFC assumes LSPs/IDEs will opt-in
- CIs could opt-in and open issues in the code review to show nits introduced in the current PR but not block merge on them

There is no expectation that crates will be `nit`-free.

*Note:* The name `nit` is being used for illustrative purposes and is assumed to not be the final choice

*Note:* This RFC leaves the determination of what lints will be `nit` by
default to the respective teams.  Any lints referenced in this document are
for illustrating the intent of this feature and how teams could reason about
this new lint level.

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

By its name and literal usage, the `warn` level is non-blocking.
However, most projects treat `warn` as a soft-error.
It doesn't block for local development but CI blocks it from being merged.
This is an attempt to balance final correctness with rapid prototyping.

> Requiring "warnings clean" code also avoids warnings fatigue where warnings
> make it hard to see "relevant' compiler output and
> act as proverbial [broken windows](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Broken_windows_theory).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Requiring "warnings clean" code also avoids warnings fatigue where warnings
make it hard to see "relevant" compiler output, and make a codebase feel
lower-quality in a way that does not inspire people or invite people to
help solve the problem.
```

(Let's avoid the substantial political connotations of the phrase, and convey the underlying concept in a self-explanatory fashion instead.)

`nit` is for coding suggestions for users that may or may not improve the code or may not need to be done yet.

`allow` is for when there is no right answer (e.g. mutually exclusive lints), there are false positives, the lint is overly noisy, or the lint is of limited value.

*Note:* This is for communicating the intent of this RFC and to get people started with this new feature and is not meant to precisely redefine the
[lint levels](https://rustc-dev-guide.rust-lang.org/diagnostics.html#diagnostic-levels).

# Reference-level explanation
[reference-level-explanation]: #reference-level-explanation

## Rustc

Rustc focuses on the mechanics of a new, visible lint level `nit`.

Add support for the new lint:
```rust
#![nit(deprecated)]
```
```console
$ rustc --nit deprecated ...
```
```console
$ rustc -Ndeprecated ...
```

These will be rendered like other lint levels with a diagnostic level and coloring that conveys the non-blocking, helpful nature.
For example, this could be rendered like a `note:` or `help:` diagnostic level.

Rustc will have a dynamic lint group of all `nit`s, much like `warnings` is all lints at level `warn` at the time of processing, `-Anits`.

## Cargo

> Cargo implements the semantics for this to be a first-class non-blocking lint level.

Author: @Lokathor from https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3730#discussion_r1848861769

> doesn't that just give nit fatigue?
> 
> Like fundamentally if there's a lot of code you're in charge of, and it's doing something we don't detect, then we detect it, you'll have a lot to fix. and it doesn't matter if we call that new check a nit or a warning. if it suddenly says there's 4000 "whatever" in your project, you'll sigh deeply.

Author: epage from https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3730#discussion_r1848890656

> The intention of this is that maintainers don't feel the need to know how many "whatever"s they have in a project. Ideally, both the code author (though LSP) and the code reviewer (through code review integration) see the feedback and decide whether it should be acted on. Or put another way, these are only of interest for new code and can be ignored otherwise.
> 
> The one exception is if you are using this to adopt a new lint gradually. In that case you can either fix every report for a lint of interest in which case you only care about the numbers for that specific lint going down or you only worry about new code, assuming the existing code is battle tested enough and through evolution will eventually be rewritten in which case you still don't care about the metric.

Author: @Lokathor from https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3730#discussion_r1848979859

> I understand your intent, but absolutely nothing in this RFC actually does that. Nowhere does this RFC actually explain how "new code" is automatically detected, and nits only run against that. Are you assuming that it only scans for nits in the current git diff, or something like that? Such a system needs to be explained in the RFC if you're hanging the design on it.
> 
>     * What about people not using git?
> 
>     * what about people not using any revision control at all? does this never show up in the rust playground since that doesn't use version control?

Author: In the Guide section, the lints are shown to that user in two primary scenarios
- Rust-analyzer.  I'm not sure what is capable here and so I framed that unknown as a drawback.  It might not be on "only new code".  Hopefully it can be done in a way that is not too noisy for users.
- A CI integration posting to the code review.  I left this vague because not everyone has the same stack and technologies come and go.  I did mention `clippy-sarif` which is what I am using in my own projects.  [Github tracks these across runs](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/code-scanning/integrating-with-code-scanning/sarif-support-for-code-scanning#providing-data-to-track-code-scanning-alerts-across-runs) and I was given the impression that it will only report for new alerts but not finding it in the docs atm

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I think the easy part of this RFC is saying "show me diagnostics on new code only". I think the hard part is to define a system for what's "new code". If you can't actually say how cargo or rustc or rust-analyzer is picking out new code and only showing diagnostics for that, then the RFC is only half done.

At the same time, if there's a system to run a lint against "new code only", as a lesser level than "warn", then any time rustc adds a new lint people can just set it the lint to "new_only" if they feel it's too much of a change to their codebase all at once. And all existing lints that got allowed through can be bumped to new and then bumped to warn eventually.

So I'd suggest focusing on what "new code" means, and trying to define that more specifically.

Author: I've summarized the Github side of my comment in 9e3c40a and reached out to r-a people in https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3730#discussion_r1849048869

# Reference-level explanation
[reference-level-explanation]: #reference-level-explanation

## Rustc

Rustc focuses on the mechanics of a new, visible lint level `nit`.

Add support for the new lint:
```rust
#![nit(deprecated)]
```
```console
$ rustc --nit deprecated ...
```
```console
$ rustc -Ndeprecated ...
```

These will be rendered like other lint levels with a diagnostic level and coloring that conveys the non-blocking, helpful nature.
For example, this could be rendered like a `note:` or `help:` diagnostic level.

Rustc will have a dynamic lint group of all `nit`s, much like `warnings` is all lints at level `warn` at the time of processing, `-Anits`.

## Cargo

Cargo implements the semantics for this to be a first-class non-blocking lint level.

Add support for the new lint:
```toml
[workspace.lints.rust]
deprecated = "nit"
```

A new config field will be added to mirror `build.warnings`:

### `build.nits`

- Type: string
- Default: `allow`
- Environment: `CARGO_BUILD_NITS`

Controls how Cargo handles nits. Allowed values are:

- `nit`: warnings are emitted as warnings.
- `allow`: warnings are hidden (default).

# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

> Rust-analyzer might be limited in what it can do through LSP to avoid overwhelming the user with `nit`s.

Author: @Veykril any insight on how LSP clients use `Information` or `Hint` levels or what kind of UX can be made around ignorable lints without overwhelming the user with inlays or squigglies?

Looking to better talk about how this lint level will work in practice, see also https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3730#discussion_r1848991532

Reviewer 2: If a lint is limited to new code, then almost by definition it won't show too many of that lint at once. I think normal "information" style display isn't likely to overload the user.

Reviewer 8: There is LSP support for an `INFORMATION` level that we currently don't emit, and then there is `HINT` which we do for some suggestions (very rarely). It depends on the client how they are shown, VSCode shows them like warnings/errors but different color scheme while filtering them out from the problems view. I would assume we'd not want to bunch this with other cargo diagnostics when running `cargo check` within rust-analyzer, but that depends on how this feature is used I guess?

I haven't read the RFC yet so can't say much. I'll try to give this a read tomorrow. (been on vacation until this week sorry for the late reply).

Author: In 24c95065, I've marked r-a as an Unresolved Question but noted VSCode's behavior

Author: In 24c95065, I've marked r-a as an Unresolved Question but noted VSCode's behavior

[ReviewBoard](https://www.reviewboard.org/).

## Choosing lint levels

When creating a lint or overriding a default lint level,
its important to consider the semantics, something like:

`error` is for hard errors that even prevent reporting of errors further in the build, running of tests, etc.
This should be reserved for when there is no point building or testing anything further because of how broken the code is.

`warn` generally has the semantics of a soft-error.
Its non-blocking locally but will be blocked when the code is merged upstream.
This should be used when eventual correctness or consistency is desired.

`nit` is for coding suggestions for users that may or may not improve the code or may not need to be done yet.

`allow` is for when there is no right answer (e.g. mutually exclusive lints), there are false positives, the lint is overly noisy, or the lint is of limited value.

*Note:* This is for communicating the intent of this RFC and to get people started with this new feature and is not meant to precisely redefine the
[lint levels](https://rustc-dev-guide.rust-lang.org/diagnostics.html#diagnostic-levels).

# Reference-level explanation

> [reference-level-explanation]: #reference-level-explanation

Reviewer 9: We might want to also add a `## Clippy` section here to commit to changes that need to be done in Clippy. For example, adding a new lint group and moving lints there, probably from the `pedantic` (`allow`->`nit`) and the `style` group (`warn`->`nit`).

Also opening this thread for @rust-lang/clippy  to discuss the implications this will have on Clippy.

Reviewer 10: I also think some `restriction` lints can be raised to `nit` too, I see quite a few as "you can do this differently if you want to" (e.g. perhaps `as_underscore` or `deref_by_slicing`). Quite a few aren't strict at all and could usually be standard practice. At least for us, this category of lints is the most commonly raised to `warn` before committing.

The thing is, I for the most part already see the `pedantic` category as already doing both what this new `nit` group and what the current `nursery` group does. Is it perhaps best `pedantic` is raised to `nit`, and ones with FPs/are too strict are moved elsewhere? Though then those lints won't be enabled alongside `#![warn(clippy::pedantic)]`.

Reviewer 2: Yeah actually we don't need "less than warn", we've got pedantic.

we just need a way to run pedantic lints on new code only and we'd be set.

Author: I'm fine calling out that clippy would also need to do any relevant work for the new lint level.  However, I would like to treat what new groups are needed, their naming, and any other lint organization related stuff as out of scope like setting lint levels.  I think it would be much easier, more productive conversation for you to do that within your team and through your team's decision making process for that level of work rather than pulling in more major decision making into this multi-team RFC.

Author: > Yeah actually we don't need "less than warn", we've got pedantic.
>
> we just need a way to run pedantic lints on new code only and we'd be set.

The differences between this and pedantic are that the user can move things into this level *and* its a cross-linter convention.

Author: I added a discussion on pedantic at 14faa694

Author: I added a clippy section in 2410bb1e

Reviewer 11: > The differences between this and pedantic are that the user can move things into this level and its a cross-linter convention.

I don't really see that as a difference; the thing with it being in a group is that you can set its level wholesale, but there's no much benefit to being able to "move things into pedantic/nit" that's not gotten by moving things into allow/warn as needed.

That said I think supporting multiple lint level profiles would be very cool.

Author: >  I don't really see that as a difference; the thing with it being in a group is that you can set its level wholesale, but there's no much benefit to being able to "move things into pedantic/nit" that's not gotten by moving things into allow/warn as needed.

The end-user workflow, at least for a Cargo user, isn't great for moving things in and out of allow/warn for non-blocking lints.
- Users should have a static way (e.g. `[lints]`) for distinguishing between project-wide soft errors and nits.
- We need to control when to report these.  If cargo is filtering them, it needs to know under what criteria to filter them by.  If instead we are mucking with RUSTFLAGS under the hood, then a rebuild is needed to switch between the two modes.

Reviewer 11: > The end-user workflow, at least for a Cargo user, isn't great for moving things in and out of allow/warn for non-blocking lints.

I don't understand: you use the Cargo lints table for this, yes? That can move between allow and warn pretty easily. Are you looking for a way to also do it over CLI?

(As I mention in a different comment near the end I think user-defined lint groupings, or lint profiles, for that  would be _great_)

> Users should have a static way (e.g. [lints]) for distinguishing between project-wide soft errors and nits.

I've noted this in another comment but I think the unstated assumption muddling things here is `-Dwarnings`. It sounds as if what you're looking for is a way to make further distinctions that _persist under `-Dwarnings`_.

Reviewer 9: > However, I would like to treat what new groups are needed, their naming, and any other lint organization related stuff as out of scope like setting lint levels

Fully agree. I opened this thread so that the Clippy team has an isolate space in this RFC to discuss things. Those shouldn't necessarily end up in this RFC though.

Thanks for adding a Clippy section. Could you add a note to that section, that Clippy would make further decisions how to use this new feature in a team-specific decision making process?

Author: > Thanks for adding a Clippy section. Could you add a note to that section, that Clippy would make further decisions how to use this new feature in a team-specific decision making process?

I have the general disclaimer in the Summary along with another in the Motivation to remind people not to read too much into my lint level descriptions.  What are you hoping to get out of having more, particularly having them per-team?

Author: > I don't understand: you use the Cargo lints table for this, yes? That can move between allow and warn pretty easily. Are you looking for a way to also do it over CLI?

I think this is bleeding over into our other discussion at https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3730#discussion_r1851068850 which is about workflows

## Rustc

Rustc focuses on the mechanics of a new, visible lint level `nit`.

Add support for the new lint:
```rust
#![nit(deprecated)]
```
```console
$ rustc --nit deprecated ...
```
```console
$ rustc -Ndeprecated ...
```

These will be rendered like other lint levels with a diagnostic level and coloring that conveys the non-blocking, helpful nature.
For example, this could be rendered like a `note:` or `help:` diagnostic level.

Rustc will have a dynamic lint group of all `nit`s, much like `warnings` is all lints at level `warn` at the time of processing, `-Anits`.

## Cargo

Cargo implements the semantics for this to be a first-class non-blocking lint level.

Add support for the new lint:
```toml
[workspace.lints.rust]
deprecated = "nit"
```

A new config field will be added to mirror `build.warnings`:

### `build.nits`

- Type: string
- Default: `allow`
- Environment: `CARGO_BUILD_NITS`

Controls how Cargo handles nits. Allowed values are:

- `nit`: warnings are emitted as warnings.
- `allow`: warnings are hidden (default).

# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

Rust-analyzer might be limited in what it can do through LSP to avoid overwhelming the user with `nit`s.

> This requires a non-standard CI setup to report these messages.

Reviewer 9: A follow-up RFC or compiler MCP could propose to make `--error-format=sarif` a first class citizen in `rustc`, replacing `clippy-sarif`, so that a CI setup with sarif error reporting becomes more the norm (or at least a standard option).

That was requested from Clippy before https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-clippy/issues/8121 but I had to push back on this, because properly supporting this could only be done in `rustc`.

Author: Discussed in 5e307601

Non-rust-analyzer users won't get feedback until CI runs and then will have to know to run their linter in a special way to reproduce CI's output locally.

Users running `CARGO_BUILD_NITS=nit cargo clippy` will have a hard time finding what lints are relevant for their change.
If we had a way to filter lints by part of the API or by "whats new since run X",

> then that could be resolved.

Reviewer 9: Also not this RFC: Another option would be to group lint output by severity. But this might be a hard change to do with the current linting framework implementation in `rustc` and might also hurt UX, as diagnostics could only be printed after all of them are collected.

After writing this, I don't think this is such a good idea. Leaving it here anyway, if someone else has a similar/better idea.

Author: I see this is orthogonal to adding a new lint level and so would lean towards leaving this out anyways.

Bacon does this and I would love to have a "cargo watch" modeled after Bacon.  I think in that model, the sorting works better.

Reviewer 9: Yeah, it's off-topic. Resolving this thread, but glad that you also see something like this to be useful.

As `nit`s will always be enabled in the linter, just silenced in Cargo, the performance hit of running
them will be present unless `RUSTFLAGS=-Anits` is applied by the user.

# Rationale and alternatives
[rationale-and-alternatives]: #rationale-and-alternatives

- `CARGO_BUILD_NITS=allow` is the default to avoid "warning fatigue"
- The default level for lints is left unchanged by this RFC to keep the scope of what is designed and reviewed to the minimum
- Rustc shows `nit`s by default, rather than hide them and require a separate opt-in mechanism for Cargo to see them
  - Problem: People directly using rustc or using a third-party build tool may be inundated with these
  - Lint levels may change without breaking compatibility
  - If stabilize with no `nit`s or only downgrading `warn`s to `nit`s, then there will be no difference in the amount of output
  - We already have a mechanism, let's not invent a new one
- `nits` lint group is created to give rustc-only or third-party build tools a built-in way to control these besides ignoring them like Cargo

> - Cargo could print a message that `nit`s are present to help raise awareness of how to show them but they will likely always be present, so this is noise to experienced users.

Reviewer 9: FWIW, in Clippy we thought about adding something similar for lints that weren't emitted because of a (default) clippy config. For example if `avoid_breaking_exported_api` is defaulted to `true`, then some lints do not get emitted. We thought about emitting a message like

```  
`avoid_breaking_exported_api = true` prevented 5 lints to be emitted
```

This would help us raising awareness for Clippy configuration options. 

But we didn't really pursue that, because OTOneH it could be noisy, as stated here, and OTOtherH I/we weren't sure if `rustc` supports emitting such things as one-liners similar to what is emitted at the end of `cargo build/check`:

```
warning: `abc` (bin "abc") generated 1 warning
```

---

Long story short: Clippy and this might both benefit from a way to emit additional metadata/information after `cargo check/clippy` to inform the user about configuration options.

Author: Had some long debates with someone about the right default for `avoid_breaking_exported_api` (presume established codebase / library or optimize for new user writing an application)

In a way, it could be nice to have lints silenced by `avoid_breaking_exported_api` to instead to `nit`, rather than `allow` though that feels like there might be some circumstances where that isn't a good idea.

> Long story short: Clippy and this might both benefit from a way to emit additional metadata/information after cargo check/clippy to inform the user about configuration options.

This is implementing support directly in Cargo, so it isn't quite the same as trying to get clippy to report something like this.

However, there might be a way to do this today, with Cargo's cooperation.  We were talking about cargo tracking [unused-crate-dependencies](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/rustc/lints/listing/allowed-by-default.html#unused-crate-dependencies) and deciding when to report it back based on the if all crates in a package agree (if enough crates were built).   I can't remember if we were just going to key off of the lint name in json or if there was some lint-specific information that was being communicated.  If the latter, then maybe something similar can be done here and cargo can count and report it.

However, there is still the question of "is this worth it".  Also, if we do make these `nit`s instead of `allow`s, then this problem goes away.

Author: btw I went ahead and called out `avoid_breaking_exported_api` in 21f543aa.  While this RFC is not directly addressing it, I wanted to have a more complete picture of lint level workflows.

#![warn(clippy::needless_borrow)]
#![warn(clippy::redundant_clone)]
```
due to false positives and the level of subjectivity of the improvements.
This approach was first relaxed in 2024 ([cargo#11722](https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo/pull/11722)).

Over time and with the addition of the `[lints]` table, this eventually led to ([cargo#12178](https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo/pull/12178)):
```toml
[workspace.lints.clippy]
all = { level = "allow", priority = -1 }
dbg_macro = "warn"
disallowed_methods = "warn"
print_stderr = "warn"
print_stdout = "warn"
self_named_module_files = "warn"
```

In a recent PR, a bug that clippy would have found without our level overrides (`derive_ord_xor_partial_ord`)
was only caught in review because one of the reviewers has seen clippy report
this lint many times in other projects.
After some discussion, the `Cargo.toml` was updated to ([cargo#14796](https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo/pull/14796)):
```toml
[workspace.lints.clippy]
all = { level = "allow", priority = -2 }
correctness = { level = "warn", priority = -1 }
dbg_macro = "warn"
disallowed_methods = "warn"
print_stderr = "warn"
print_stdout = "warn"
self_named_module_files = "warn"
```

> If more clippy lints were non-blocking, maybe the Cargo team would not have set

Reviewer 11: I find this statement to be a bit weird. Most clippy lints _are_ non-blocking. "warn" _is_ non-blocking. Clippy has a small set of blocking lints, which is `correctness`, which is exactly what this config ends up falling to, more or less, except for a `-Dwarnings` world.

Author: That statement is made within the context of the start of the motivation section:

> By its name and literal usage, the `warn` level is non-blocking.
> However, most projects treat `warn` as a soft-error.
> It doesn't block for local development but CI blocks it from being merged.
> This is an attempt to balance final correctness with rapid prototyping.
> Requiring "warnings clean" code also avoids warnings fatigue where warnings
> make it hard to see "relevant" compiler output, and make a codebase feel
> lower-quality in a way that does not inspire people or invite people to
> help solve the problem.
> This convention is not new with the Rust community; many C++ projects have take
> this approach before Rust came to be with "warnings clean" being a goal for
> correctness.
> Cargo is looking to further cement this meaning by adding
> [`CARGO_BUILD_WARNINGS=deny`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/cargo/reference/unstable.html#warnings)
> for CIs to set rather than `RUSTFLAGS=-Dwarnings`.

Reviewer 11: Going to post a bigger comment about this. I think there's a subtler thing underlying this claim.

Reviewer 11: ## Why do people `-Dwarnings`?

The RFC has an interesting tidbit that inadvertantly reveals one of the subtler things underlying this discussion

> If more clippy lints were non-blocking, maybe the Cargo team would not have set `all` to `allow` and been able to catch this more easily.

The interesting thing is ... **the lints in question are, technically speaking, non-blocking**! They were `warn`! And the choice the `cargo` team made with their codebase here was ultimately to block on the Clippy `correctness` lint group ... **which is `deny` by default**! They sort of arrived at the choices made by clippy _available by default_, the long way around.

...except that's not quite the case in a `-Dwarnings` world, right? In such a world, "warn" counts as blocking. And if you're _used_ to a `-Dwarnings` world, it is a totally consistent thing to claim all of Clippy's `warn` lints as being "blocking", even though that's not a default.

Which makes me step back a bit and think a bit more about why people use `-Dwarnings` with clippy. Because, yes, that is an absolutely supported and valid workflow, and even somewhat encouraged, but it's not the default. If we wanted it to be the default we'd just mark more of our lints as `deny`! But a lot of people CI with `-Dwarnings`, including most codebases I work on.

And it comes back to some principles about warning fatigue. A linter is only useful if it's not noisy. One of the ways a linter can be noisy is a workflow where people do not necessarily run the linter on every commit, so there's plenty of code in the codebase that throws lints, and a contributor adding code will find lints about their changes buried amongst hundreds of lints from the rest of the codebase[^1].

So most people CI with `-Dwarnings` to ensure that the codebase is linter-clean, so that any _new_  warnings are by necessity warnings in new code, and thus relevant.

Which means that, of course, the `-Dwarnings` world is "normal" for most of us, at least in CI.

Given all this, though, do we think that `nit`s will be treated differently?

Stepping through the steps again:

 1. For `nit`s to be useful, your codebase should not be emitting tons of them, and only showing you _relevant_ ones
 2. The easiest way to ensure this is to ensure that the `main` branch is `nit`-free
 3. People are going to want to build with `-Dnits`
 4. We have the same issues as people who build with `-Dwarnings` are having.

... which makes me feel like this is introducing a distinction without a difference, that won't actually solve any of these problems in practice, unless paired with other improvements elsewhere.

I think the underlying problem here is (1): lints are not useful if a codebase is full of them. That could potentially be improved upon for `nit`s, somehow.

For example, we could potentially make it the norm to rarely, if ever use `-Dnits` (or even make it unavailable, though I don't like restricting functionality). Instead, this feature is design in concert with IDEs to provide the right UX such that nits are still useful even if a codebase is not nit-free from the get go. The RFC has a good start of it mentioning the default as being hidden except in IDEs, but I think more holistic UX work could be done there. Either only showing nits on code that has been modified by the current user, or just expecting they be shown with much less weight so that seeing a file full of nits is overall not a big idea.

I also wonder if, as mentioned elsewhere, supporting lint profiles would be a good solution to many of the issues here. Being able to say "by default build with these lint settings, but when building with `--profile morelints` or `--lints morelints` build with these settings instead". Perhaps IDEs are set up to request slightly noisier lints.

As it stands I'm not convinced that `nit` as a feature will in and of itself fix the problems talked about in the motivation here. I think it is a component of many solutions, but not a solution in and of itself.
 

 [^1]: Tooling _can_ help here; there are code review designs where the only lints shown are ones relevant to the actual code being edited. But most people don't use things like that.

Reviewer 11: > I also wonder if, as mentioned elsewhere, supporting lint profiles would be a good solution to many of the issues here. Being able to say "by default build with these lint settings, but when building with --profile morelints or --lints morelints build with these settings instead". Perhaps IDEs are set up to request slightly noisier lints.

thought: this proposal is _basically_ giving the ability to do more fine grained versions of `-Dwarnings`. Because it's _true_ that a codebase wants to run different "sets" of lints at different times:  `-Dwarnings`  during development is terrible, but somewhat normal during dev, and having finer grained control would be amazing.

Author: > And it comes back to some principles about warning fatigue. A linter is only useful if it's not noisy. 

I think this is a reductionist take.  The motivation section is not theoretically constructed but coming from my experience with my own code and in coming into another code base and seeing how they work.  I specifically called out these projects.  I specifically called out where the current workflows are failing each project.  "Warning fatigue" was not a pertinent factor in those projects.

I think it would be good to first take a step back and see what basic principles we can both agree on.

Do you agree people have strong enough reason to view lints in the following workflows around lints with users being empowered choose which lints are associated with each workflow?
- This is not worth producing a binary / running tests (I can see putting `derive_ord_xor_partial_ord` in this category)
- Fine for local experimentation but should be cleaned up for production (`dead_code`)
- Help catch little things that may make improvements (`let_and_return`)
- Things I never want to hear about (`mod_module_files` for me because prevent `self_named_module_files`)

Do you know of any other workflows not covered above?

Reviewer 11: I mean, I don't think my point about warning fatigue is a point _against_ this RFC? And it's literally mentioned in the first paragraph of the motivation. I 100% agree with the motivation that it's important to be able to see _relevant_ compiler output! 

This comment is me trying to unravel some of the choices that led to Cargo choosing to arrive at clippy's defaults "the long way around" (i.e., if Cargo had just chosen to run `cargo clippy` in CI with no additional flags). The reasons for Cargo to do that make sense! It's a `-Dwarnings`-in-CI codebase, and it has good reason to use `-Dwarnings`-in-CI, as do most codebases in the Rust ecosystem, and making that choice for its `cargo clippy` run seems natural. Cargo didn't do anything _wrong_ here, but it's definitely an indicator of _something_ wrong that Cargo went through this cycle.

This _is_ my attempt to step back; I'm trying to sketch out the problem space a bit more.

> Do you agree people have strong enough reason to view lints in the following workflows around lints with users being empowered choose which lints are associated with each workflow?

Yes, but I think there's more to it. I think my position is that this four-way distinction (deny, deny-in-CI, informative, hidden) is a good one for many codebases, and I absolutely agree that people have good reasons to have that distinction. I also think that it's not the _only_ such distinction available.

CI can be multifaceted: for example some of people care about denying _rustc_ lints[^1] on all CI'd versions, but will want `-Dwarnings` clippy only on a particular version of the compiler (already somewhat easy to make happen in CI systems). There's lints you only care about during release time if you're not an always-releasable system, which people currently either do `#[allow(lint)] // TODO #1234` or  by perma-allowing the lint and having a release step that's about enabling the lint[^2].

There's also the time axis: a thing I've noticed in large monorepo codebases is that they (or their toolchain) introduce new lints/analyses every now and then, _but they aren't expected to fix old code when they do_. _New_ code however is basically required to fix these. This is a great use case for some of the things you've mentioned in this RFC around warning on things introduced in a PR.

So what I see out there is a distinction of "deny, inform, allow, deny-in-CI, deny-in-release, deny-in-whatever, deny-in-whateverelse, ...". I'm not really convinced the solution here is to just offer _one_ knob that works by ignoring `-Dwarnings` and also having different UX. I see multiple separate concerns here:

 - We just don't have enough control over contextual blocking/non-blocking
 - The UX of warnings is quite rigid and it would be nice to have more differentiation here

## We just don't have enough control over contextual blocking/non-blocking

We have two ways to control what is blocking and non blocking:

 - Setting lint levels
 - `-Dwarnings`

The former is hardcoded (yes, you can pass things in the CLI, but that's not pleasant). The latter is a _single_ toggle that affects every hardcoded "warn" lint wholesale. There's no further control. That kind of sucks. The motivation for this RFC heavily cites cases around this, but I'm not convinced that the solution proposed is sufficient. 

I think focusing on `-Dwarnings` and the reasons people choose it is a good way to come up with a good solution for the problems here. Perhaps you disagree.

## The UX of warnings is quite rigid and it would be nice to have more differentiation here

All warnings are currently alike, and I don't think they really should be in practice. Clippy attempts to make some differentiation with lint grouping, but that doesn't really change the UI/UX: we still just have "error, warning, nothing" to choose from.

I really think a `nit` lint level solves _this_ problem quite well. It would be great to signal to IDEs that they need to do different UI for a lint. We could even improve the rustc TUI around nits by doing a collapsed thing where it doesn't show all warnings, just "also found X nits" or "also found X `let_and_return` nits, and Y `cast_lossless` nits".

-------

Anyway, hope that better illustrates where I'm coming from.

 [^1]: Which are way more careful about new lints across releases
 [^2]: ICU4X doesn't do this for lints, but we do do this for rustfmt'ing doctests. We don't want every PR to be gated on that, it's annoying, but we do have a release checklist step for doing it.

Author: > I mean, I don't think my point about warning fatigue is a point against this RFC? And it's literally mentioned in the first paragraph of the motivation. I 100% agree with the motivation that it's important to be able to see relevant compiler output!

I didn't say it was, directly, but I feel like parts of what I'm trying to communicate are being missed because of the focus on backtracking how things came to be and on the implementation.  I'm trying to step back to basics to see if we can agree on those so we have a foundation for the rest of the conversation.

> Yes, but I think there's more to it. I think my position is that this four-way distinction (deny, deny-in-CI, informative, hidden) is a good one for many codebases, and I absolutely agree that people have good reasons to have that distinction. 

Alright, this sounds like a good place to start!

> some of people care about denying rustc lints[1](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3730#user-content-fn-1-1e933df256da21d625b0adb31475f1fa) on all CI'd versions, but will want -Dwarnings clippy only on a particular version of the compiler (already somewhat easy to make happen in CI systems).

I assume users deny on a specific version for clippy so master stays green.  if they are already handling that, why bother denying rustc lints in all releases rather than just doing it in the one clippy job and avoid redundant runs?  If its denying while building for tests, then that means they can't get any test feedback until all style warnings are addressed which adds an unnecessary sequencing that slows down feedback to the user.

>  There's lints you only care about during release time if you're not an always-releasable system, which people currently either do #[allow(lint)] // TODO #1234 or by perma-allowing the lint and having a release step that's about enabling the lint

Good point for us to consider this workflow.  For myself, I think we shouldn't go out of our way to support this workflow and covered that in d5814384.

> So what I see out there is a distinction of "deny, inform, allow, deny-in-CI, deny-in-release, deny-in-whatever, deny-in-whateverelse, ...". I'm not really convinced the solution here is to just offer one knob that works by ignoring -Dwarnings and also having different UX. I see multiple separate concerns here:

Do we need to support every solution?

In Cargo, our [design principles](https://doc.crates.io/contrib/design.html) push for a canonical workflow, rather than supporting every workflow.  I know Rustc and clippy are different and need to focus more on the mechanisms of doing things rather than end-user policy like this.

I feel like we also have other biases that push me to this solution
- We now have the `[lints]` table and people are already using levels in that to get most of the semantics and to handle other semantics through a wholly new solution would be disruptive and is a lot larger of a new design to work through
- Cargo has an unstable replacement for `-Dwarnings` that, while a mechanism, smoothing out the path for warnings being soft errors

It could be said that if we get the right mechanisms, we could allow us to invent new, unexpected workflows, in the future.  However, over-generalization also has costs.

Reviewer 11: > I feel like parts of what I'm trying to communicate are being missed because of the focus on backtracking how things came to be and on the implementation.

I went through that exercise because I noticed that Cargo had gone through a bunch of steps to arrive at Clippy's original defaults, and I didn't want us to add a new feature that leads to the same dynamic just at a different level. I'm still not convinced that the `nit` lint level (with no other changes) won't eventually end up in the same cycle of "people want to `-Dnit`" -> "people are frustrated when things are too noisy".

> Good point for us to consider this workflow. For myself, I think we shouldn't go out of our way to support this workflow and covered that in https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/commit/d5814384b304a9a2baa2f5f4a91546fdab2025c7.

To be clear, it was an example, I think there are a lot of other things in this space. Like, for example "lints for people learning". This is a topic that has come up countless times and the current lint level architecture is just insufficient for it because we just don't support wholesale modalities beyond `-Dwarnings`. 

>if they are already handling that, why bother denying rustc lints in all releases rather than just doing it in the one clippy job and avoid redundant runs?  

As I mentioned in a different comment, clippy lint levels have a lower severity than Rust ones. I think it's a legitimate use case to want to be warnings-green for _rust_ on all versions but for _clippy_ only on one particular version. _Especially_ due to new Rust lints often signaling future incompatibility / edition stuff.

ICU4X has missed out on future incompatibility stuff until it was much later in the cycle, in the past.

> Do we need to support every solution?

No, but I think it's somewhat suboptimal to tack things onto the single modality switch that is `-Dwarnings` hoping we're supporting most use cases. Like yeah, Cargo is adding a Newer, Better, `-Dwarnings` in the form of `CARGO_BUILD_WARNINGS=deny`, but then someone's going to ask for "let me `-Dnits`", so we'll need `CARGO_NITS_WARNINGS=deny`. The solution seems a bit piecemeal rather than holistic.

> We now have the [lints] table and people are already using levels in that to get most of the semantics and to handle other semantics through a wholly new solution would be disruptive and is a lot larger of a new design to work through

I guess I'm coming from the same angle? I think `[lints]` can be extended really well to have this kind of configurability! You said it yourself in the RFC: Clippy `pedantic` serves the purpose of the type of lint talked of in this RFC, kind of, except you can't manually add things to the group. I actually do think that "giving users the ability to group lints into profiles" and allowing profiles to be set globally is a really promising route.

I think what I am talking about is less of a departure from the current workflow than a new "nit" lint level. It might be more work to implement, but I think it'll support more use cases in the long run.

(As said before, I still want a nit lint level, but designed as a solution to a different set of problems)

At the very least I do think it's worth exploring the space of modalities for lints and solutions for that space, and then perhaps concluding that a "nit" lint level is in fact the best solution to pick, trading off use cases supported, implementation complexity, and migration complexity.

I'm happy to write up an RFC for this if you don't want to.

Just as a data point: I have a hard time thinking Clippy will move its `pedantic` group over to `nit` (though maaaybe we'd split it? Unsure). So people wishing for this kind of configurability with clippy are going to have to add to `[lints]` anyway, in some form. I'm thinking something more structured would be nice.

Reviewer 2: Are we still assuming that `nit` only runs against new code? If that's the case, it's essentially impossible for it to be noisy.

Reviewer 11: Yes, I am, but I don't think it's impossible for it to be noisy. "new code" is firstly a bit of a nebulous thing, I've found that systems which do this typically do it for all files touched, not narrowed to all modified lines. It's unclear to me if that choice is because lints often fire _near_ changed code, or because this serves as a nudge to fix other issues in the file.

Which is still not prone to noise except ... new lints are a thing. And new lints _do_ get noisy since they hit you like a flood (remember `check-cfg`? And of course this is a regular experience of people who run clippy with `-Dclippy::pedantic`, but that's somewhat expected) even when you filter down to only changed files. Perhaps not if you filter down to changed lines of codes? Unclear.

But thanks for the reminder: there have been a lot of ideas of this type in the past and it's easy to get muddled. This proposal does not propose any actual surfacing of `nit`s in first-party Rust tooling outside of json output. 

(I actually _would_ like a `nit` lint level that has better UX in `rustc`, potentially collapsing down to a single informative error listing the number of nits of each kind)

Reviewer 2: I'm assuming that even a new nit would only fire against new code, not all code, since it's still just a nit. So the amount of code that could possibly have nits firing on it is still capped to "code touched by the current PR or git diff". And so, assuming people understand their own PRs (maybe this shouldn't be assumed), the total nit level should stay within range of the programmer writing the PR.

Reviewer 11: Just another example of lint modalities: "warn for main code but not tests". ICU4X does this and because it does this we cannot use the `[lints]` table right now.

```
    #![cfg_attr(
        not(test),
        deny(
            clippy::indexing_slicing,
            clippy::unwrap_used,
            clippy::expect_used,
            clippy::panic,
            clippy::exhaustive_structs,
            clippy::exhaustive_enums,
            missing_debug_implementations,
        )
    )]
```

(Ignore that this is `deny`: it could be `warn` as well and would not change our workflow/CI in any way, that's just the choice that was made when this boilerplate was first written. We `-Dwarnings --all-targets --all-features` in Clippy CI.)

For the clippy restriction lints[^1] it doesn't really make sense to have them enabled on tests, and the same goes for `missing_debug_implementations`, so that's a type of useful modality to have available. Ideally one that gets automatically handled (a "tests" lint profile that's automatically enabled when building test-only code)  but not necessarily.

 [^1]: A restriction lint is effectively "this is not considered bad, however codebases may have reasons to wish to disallow it". ICU4X is no-panics so it tries to flag as many of those as possible, and its API evolution rules also require an exhaustive default. Neither of these are things that matter for most codebases, and they also do not matter for ICU4X test code (we _want_ test code to be able to panic, of course).

Reviewer 11: > "code touched by the current PR or git diff

... or at least _files_ touched by the current PR.

It should stay within range for fixing, but if it's annoying enough people may still disable it and want to do a whole-program fix sweep before it gets enabled.

I do agree that "nits aren't shown in most default workflows" _mostly_ solves the noisiness problem.

Reviewer 2: I mean *personally* I don't want the CI to do stuff different from my own computer, so I'd either turn on nits on my own machine all the time, or I'd turn them all off forever. I'm not exactly the target audience of this RFC.

Reviewer 11: @Lokathor Okay, but this is exactly my worry here :smile: . I'm in a similar boat: I don't use an IDE, and I don't want my CI to be _that_ different from the local computer[^1], I just want "what is blocking" to be different. I don't think this RFC solves the problems it is motivated by for people like me.

I'm the target audience for the motivation. I'm not the target audience for the solution. That is disappointing, and I do not think that means we should not participate in this RFC.

 [^1]: Too many experiences with complex codebases and being unable to figure out why something is broken in CI and not locally. Almost all of ICU4X's CI jobs are specified as `cargo make ci-job-foo` where `ci-job-foo` has the actual subtasks, so if a CI task fails and you can't figure out why, worst case you can just run the `cargo-make` task locally. The "make clippy show up on PRs" task, and deploy tasks, are the only ones that do something different, and I have had to debug the clippy one before.

Reviewer 9: > I actually do think that "giving users the ability to group lints into profiles" and allowing profiles to be set globally is a really promising route.

This and giving tools like Clippy the ability to pre-define profiles would be a great feature. This would also cover requests like https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-clippy/issues/5537. 

> Just as a data point: I have a hard time thinking Clippy will move its `pedantic` group over to `nit` (though maaaybe we'd split it? Unsure).

I also don't think we would move all of `pedantic` to the `nit` lint level. I can see us introduce a new lint group in Clippy , where we move some hand-picked lints from `pedantic` and `style` to (maybe also from some other groups). But that's a decision we can make, if the `nit` level gets introduced.

> I'm in a similar boat: I don't use an IDE, and I don't want my CI to be _that_ different from the local computer

+1. I'm probably one of the persons who would set (most) nit lints to warnings and then let `-Dwarnings` on CI deal with that. And the `nit` lints that I don't want, I would `allow` in the `Cargo.toml`. I think there would be a narrow selection of `nit` lints that I would actually keep as `nit`. So I think introducing a `nit` lint level would be useful in general.

Author: I think there are two important questions
- If this doesn't work for me, is there a reasonable solution that includes me?
- If this still doesn't work for me, is there still enough value in the RFC to benefit others?

Also, another interesting characteristic of this solution that I forgot to call out earlier in this thread is that the displaying of these lints is being handled in a layer above rustc.  This means a user or tool can show or hide these without recompilation as Cargo logs messages from previous runs.  Currently, anything else would thrash the cache though hopefully that will change soon (rust-lang/cargo#14830).

Author: > As I mentioned in a different comment, clippy lint levels have a lower severity than Rust ones. I think it's a legitimate use case to want to be warnings-green for rust on all versions but for clippy only on one particular version. Especially due to new Rust lints often signaling future incompatibility / edition stuff.

While I'm ok with clippy being more opinionated and changing things more frequently than the compiler, I suspect the notion that users should treat lint clippy lint levels differently than rust lint levels is not recognized by all clippy users.  I've seen articles in the past recommending to only check `cargo clippy` for lints, rather than `cargo check && cargo clippy` because the second includes everything from the first.  For myself, I think its a UX problem for the Rust project to be inconsistent on this and require users to track the relative meaning of each linters lint levels.  We should have one set of semantics for lint levels across all tools, even if the tools vary in other criteria (opinionated, rate of change).

Reviewer 2: But `cargo clippy` *does* cover everything that a check and then a clippy covers? And each lint says if it's coming from clippy.

Author: Yes but what I'm understanding from Manish is that the two tools are disagreeing on what the lint levels mean.  From that perspective, `cargo clippy` isn't a strict superset because you should respond to warnings between them differently.  In my opinion, that puts an unnecessary burden on users that they are unlikely aware of and is counter productive.

Reviewer 2: Oh, yeah, Manish is correct. You're "supposed" to just turn off basically any clippy lint you disagree with, because most of them are pure style over substance.

Clippy, like rustfmt, doesn't always actually have the right defaults, and should be readily configured to fit the project's needs.

Author: > it's basically a non-starter to do anything else. Clippy _cannot exist_ with Rust's lint levels. Or it would, but with 99% of its lints being `allow`. Rust has a pretty high bar for lint levels, for quite understandable reasons.
> 
> The idea is that because clippy is something you _choose_ to run later and doesn't block compilation, it can do something different. I think this leads to some confusion but overall it works pretty well.

I think this is coupling a several concepts that I think we can separate
- Opinionated-ness of lints
- Rate of change of lints
- The semantic meaning of lint groups (what is a "soft error")

The last one I think users should be able to treat in a consistent manner.  It should be fine for users to run `RUSTFLAGS=-Dwarnings cargo clippy`.  Because of the rate of change, they just have a higher likelihood of needing to pin the version of clippy used for doing this.  I used to use MSRV for this but wanted the benefit of the latest clippy lints and switched to "latest stable" with Renovatebot updating the version every time a new stable comes up.

> And yeah, I don't think this would be something either ICU4X or Servo-back-when-I-worked-on-it would find useful

How come?

> I do think lint profiles would be a reasonable solution that includes me, I also think there are also other ways to fix the set of problems in the space of "lint modalities" that don't involve profiles. I have a hard time figuring out how to make this RFC fit my needs, but I perhaps haven't thought enough about it.

I have a hard time envisioning this without seeing problems that make me turn away from it.  Maybe you are seeing something different.  Willing to sketch it out?  Also more likely not to be a strawman solution then.

Reviewer 11: > The last one I think users should be able to treat in a consistent manner. It should be fine for users to run `RUSTFLAGS=-Dwarnings cargo clippy`. 

Sure, I think that's the case already. As mentioned before this is standard procedure in a lot of CI (almost always pinned). I think `-Dwarnings cargo clippy` is a lot more work to deal with than plain `cargo clippy` but that's a choice you make when you choose to use clippy. Both choices are equally valid.

I don't think clippy is that inconsistent about the semantic meaning of lint levels. I just think it's much much more different about severity and opinionatedness.

> Also more likely not to be a strawman solution then.

FWIW this isn't something I just came up with, it's been discussed before in various contexts. It seems to come up a lot when people talk about "teaching lints" (I remember I think @llogiq wanting to do teaching lints at some point? could be misremebering) though that needs more design than just "add lint profiles".

I'll sketch out a hackmd.

Reviewer 11: @epage hackmd written: https://hackmd.io/@Manishearth/BJi8K8AGJg

cc @alice-i-cecile you mentioned bevy's use cases and how using Clippy's categories is a non starter: would this proposal work? It essentially allows users to specify their own (cross-workspace if desired) groupings of lints in Cargo.toml and toggle them wholesale.

Reviewer 12: Yes, this would meet our needs, both for the custom linter and for the project as a whole. It would be sweet to be able to share and export them for users via crates.io somehow, but that's easy to do in follow-up.

Reviewer 11: @ijackson thank you, that is useful feedback! From my own use cases Option 2 isn't necessary (I think?) but it's weird to design two axes of a feature (being able to have multiple switchable profiles, and being able to control test-only stuff) and not have them be mixable in a useful way. So it's good to know if people do care about the mixing of the two.

Reviewer 11: > Also, there should be a way to declare some apparently-"production" code to be treated as a test, and vice versa

I suspect the way to get such behavior would be to be able to define custom lint _groups_ that can be toggled in code. That could be built on top of profiles but needs a bunch of rustc side work. I'll list it in a future work section.

  - Problem: People directly using rustc or using a third-party build tool may be inundated with these
  - Lint levels may change without breaking compatibility
  - If stabilize with no `nit`s or only downgrading `warn`s to `nit`s, then there will be no difference in the amount of output
  - We already have a mechanism, let's not invent a new one
- `nits` lint group is created to give rustc-only or third-party build tools a built-in way to control these besides ignoring them like Cargo
- Cargo could print a message that `nit`s are present to help raise awareness of how to show them but they will likely always be present, so this is noise to experienced users.

## `clippy::pedantic`

In purpose, this has a lot of overlap with
[`clippy::pedantic`](https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-clippy/master/index.html?groups=pedantic#/print_stderr)
in that these are "too noisy" of lints.
A mechanism could be devised for hiding/showing this group within Cargo.

However,
- This is clippy specific.  The conversation would instead shift to getting an agreed-to convention for this group.

> - The group is linter-defined and users can't override it, lints into or out of `pedantic` and `allow` or `warn`.

Reviewer 11: I actually think this would be an interesting avenue to explore: being able to do custom lint groupings and profiles.

- Feature Name: `nit-lint-level`
- Start Date: 2024-11-15
- RFC PR: [rust-lang/rfcs#3730](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3730)
- Rust Issue: [rust-lang/rust#0000](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/0000)
- [Internals](https://internals.rust-lang.org/t/forbid-deny-warn-allow-and-notice/19986)

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

Add a new visible lint level below `warn` to allow linters to act like a pair-programmer / code-reviewer where feedback is evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
- `cargo` does not display these lints by default, requiring an opt-in
- This RFC assumes LSPs/IDEs will opt-in

> - CIs could opt-in and open issues in the code review to show nits introduced in the current PR but not block merge on them

Reviewer 11: Hm, I think I got a handle on one of my underlying concerns with this RFC: the _problem_ is one faced by a lot of different people regardless of the tooling they use, but the solution proposed is squarely in the realm of third-party IDE/CI support. Which isn't necessarily a non-starter, but I do think this problem _can_ be solved "in universe" in a way that benefits everyone.

IDEs are an optional thing one may use when working with Rust. So is `cargo`, admittedly, but `cargo` is much "less" optional and typically people replace cargo with an equivalent tool, unlike IDEs, which can be replaced with plain editors.

CI is also optional but since by and large the primary problem being solved here involves "what shows up locally vs what shows up in CI[^1]" it's not really a problem in a non-CI world.

However, choice of CI systems _is_ optional. Not every CI system will end up with this type of integrated tool, and the ones who do may not have one flexible enough to support folks' needs. People do a _lot_ of fancy stuff in their Rust CI and I wouldn't expect a "Run lints but only show nits on the CI" to tool to actually be usable by most users initially. As a datapoint, ICU4X has had the "show lints on PRs" CI task enabled and disabled a bunch of times for various reasons.

 [^1]: n.b: "shows up" here is about what the user actually notices: I'd consider `warn` lints as "showing up" locally, but _not_ "showing up" in CI, since people seldom look at the logs of successful CI runs.

Author: This RFC gives people the building blocks to make that policy.  If they don't implement it, they still have the ability to show these lints on the command-line.  Granted, that would be a firehose as pointed out in the RFC.  The community can explore and iterate on tools to help with this.

In the end, if the user does nothing extra, `nit` will be like `allow` and those users will have lost nothing from this.

Reviewer 11: Okay, but I don't think "don't make the experience worse for other people" ought to be the bar for an RFC. This RFC lists problems that I have, that many people have, a its motivation. If the RFC does not solve those problems for us, I think that that's definitely an issue! It means the RFC is not fully solving the problems it talks about; and I don't think that's good for an RFC.

"Build your own CI tooling around this" is an acceptable conclusion for these folks. But "build your own CI tooling around this" was already a solution in the current world; this is just making that a _little_ easier.

Author: > Okay, but I don't think "don't make the experience worse for other people" ought to be the bar for an RFC. 

If this isn't solving a problem for some users, how is it making the problem worse for them?  The only thing I can think of is that linter teams decide to demote `warnings` into `nits` and they no longer show up.  Except there is already a common expectation of needing to do a lot of customization, so is that much of a change?

> If the RFC does not solve those problems for us, I think that that's definitely an issue! It means the RFC is not fully solving the problems it talks about; and I don't think that's good for an RFC.

Not every solution can solve a problem for every user.  Sometimes we intentionally don't try to solve problems for every user.

This is somewhat talked about in the other thread, like with https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3730#discussion_r1854365541

>  But "build your own CI tooling around this" was already a solution in the current world; this is just making that a little easier.

This is at least partially answered in the RFC.  To do this today, you need to use RUSTFLAGS.  If you just set the RUSTFLAGS in CI, you then can't reproduce it locally.

What you'd likely need to do is
- Maintain a `config.toml`, separate from your `[lints]`, for this
- Point rust-analyzer to this file through `--config`
  - Set up a separate `CARGO_TARGET_DIR` to avoid cache thrashing until rust-lang/cargo#14830 (if this third attempt even pans out)
- Point CI at this file through `--config`
- Document for people to know about this file and how to use it with `--config`

Even then to view the lints today you will get cache thrashing.  If rust-lang/cargo#14830 ends up working, you won't get cache thrashing but you won't get any cache reuse between these nit runs and regular runs.

CI will either need a separate run without the nits `config.toml` to run with `-Dwarnings` (requiring a full rebuild) or it will have to be the first thing your config does before showing turning all of the other allows into warnings.  With the latter, the user will then have r-a turning all standard warnings into errors which at minimum will block for anything built after.  if you then use `--keep-going`, it will only block dependents.  Maybe instead you have two separate `config.toml` files, one that has `-Dwarnings` and one that doesn't, requiring you to track two the nits in two places.  The r-a user then has the problem that there is no way to distinguish nits from regular warnings.

That is a complicated path requiring knowledge of various advanced features and likely not discovering some of the problems i called out until they are hit.  The burden for adopting this and maintaining it severely limits the likelihood someone would bother to adopt it.

So no, this is not about making it a *little* easier.  This is about smoothing the path so people are even willing to do it in the first place.

Reviewer 2: Solving a problem for some but not all users often uses a lot of time and energy, which are usually both stretched quite thin within the Rust project.

A solution that suits some people can make a solution for the others become farther off because people don't always have the energy to do a thing, 'finally get it done', and then turn around and tackle almost the same problem all over again.

Reviewer 11: > If this isn't solving a problem for some users, how is it making the problem worse for them? T

You misunderstand, I'm not saying it makes the problem worse for them, I just think that "doesn't make it worse for people" isn't the right bar for an RFC that's trying to solve a problem like this. You're free to disagree with that.

There is one way in which I'm worried this RFC makes things worse: people have wanted a `nit`-style "less than `warn`" level for _different_ reasons[^1] and I'm somewhat worried that having `nit` be used for this purpose would hinder the design of such a thing in the future. A design that explicitly declares that `CARGO_BUILD_NITS=deny` is never going to be a thing would definitely be a problem for a feature that lets you tweak lint UX for some lints but not others.

 [^1]: Specifically, having a level that indicates "different, less noisy UX", for example collapsing all lints down into a small report, or perhaps making them oneliners. Basically changing how they get reported. Which is kind of what's going on with the r-a and CI proposals here, but there are a lot more different ways the UX can be tweaked around.

> Not every solution can solve a problem for every user. Sometimes we intentionally don't try to solve problems for every user.
>
> This is somewhat talked about in the other thread, like with https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3730#discussion_r1854365541

Yes, but I'm not convinced this solves the problem for enough of the people who have it. As mentioned before there's a huge diversity of attitudes towards linting and I'm skeptical this is sufficient for them.

And to be clear, I'm not talking about other lint modality problems like "deny only when releasing" or "deny only when testing" as I was elsewhere, I'm talking about the problems listed in the motivation here.

Furthermore as @Lokathor mentioned, partial solutions do often legitimately hinder full solutions in the future.

> To do this today, you need to use RUSTFLAGS. 

No, that's not what I'm talking about here. This is in the context of PR-integrated CI systems (like "show errors on PRs", e.g. [clippy-action](https://github.com/giraffate/clippy-action))

This RFC proposes a feature that is useful if IDEs pick it up (and then, that's only useful to people using IDEs!), or if PR-integrated CI tooling systems pick it up. The CI thing isn't simply a use of `RUSTFLAGS` because for this to be surfaced to the user (people don't read non-failing CI logs) it needs to do the thing where the warnings are slurped up and tagged on the PR diff using the GitHub API (or whatever).

My current experience with that type of PR-integrated CI tooling is that it tends to work for simple things and often ends up needing much more configurability than is available when a codebase gets more complex. In which case you're kind of required to roll your own. Overall I don't see people doing that since it's a lot of work, instead when this happens folks just don't use the PR-integrated CI tooling, after all it's mostly just a QoL improvement: you can always figure out your lints from failing CI or a local run.

Thing is, if you're rolling your own anyway, then you can also fix the problems motivating this RFC by making the PR-integrated CI tool have a config for lints like this. That's relatively minor in the scheme of things when it comes to the amount of work involved in building one of these.

That's what I'm talking about when I say "it makes it a little easier". This RFC is predicated on PR-integrated CI tooling being built that consumes this, but you can do this _today_ in [clippy-action](https://github.com/giraffate/clippy-action)  using its flag settings. This RFC doesn't really enable anything _new_ for these systems, just a better convention that nicely integrates with `[lints]`. Which is valuable! It's far better for this to work with `[lints]` than some `clippy-action.toml` or `clippy_flags: -Dfoo -Abar` or whatever since it's great for `[lints]` to be a one-stop shop, and I really don't want to undersell the benefit of that!

But! If a PR-integrated CI system doesn't work for me, I have to roll my own _anyway_, at which point this better convention doesn't buy me much in the scheme of things. That's what i mean by "it makes it a little easier", I'm talking about people for whom the existing PR-integrated CI systems don't work well. I don't think that's a small set of people at all, I've seen relatively low uptake of these systems, partially because of permissions issues, partly because of more bespoke build setups, etc.

It makes it a lot easier for people for whom this style of integrated CI tooling works well out of the box. I'm not convinced that's a lot of people.

Reviewer 11: > Sometimes we intentionally don't try to solve problems for every user.

Specifically about this: my point here is to highlight that users who care about replicable CI, users who don't use IDEs, and users for whom PR-integrated CI doesn't work are not covered by this RFC, and if we are being _intentionally_ excluded from the solutions here, that is fine, but that _intention_ needs to be there, and when the lang team makes a call on this they should be aware, and attempt to understand what percentage of the target audience of this RFC's motivation is _intentionally_ excluded from the solution.

I don't want it to fly under the radar that these groups are not going to benefit from this RFC. You're absolutely right that we sometimes intentionally don't solve problems for every user. However, we actually do have to be intentional about it.

- Feature Name: `nit-lint-level`
- Start Date: 2024-11-15
- RFC PR: [rust-lang/rfcs#3730](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3730)
- Rust Issue: [rust-lang/rust#0000](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/0000)
- [Internals](https://internals.rust-lang.org/t/forbid-deny-warn-allow-and-notice/19986)

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

Add a new visible lint level below `warn` to allow linters to act like a pair-programmer / code-reviewer where feedback is evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
- `cargo` does not display these lints by default, requiring an opt-in
- This RFC assumes LSPs/IDEs will opt-in

> - CIs could opt-in and open issues in the code review to show nits introduced in the current PR but not block merge on them

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
- CIs could opt-in and open issues in the code review to show nits introduced in the current PR without blocking merging
```

Author: Tweaked it further in  8be68a2

There is no expectation that crates will be `nit`-free.

> *Note:* The name `nit` is being used for illustrative purposes and is assumed to not be the final choice

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
*Note:* The name `nit` is being used for illustrative purposes and is assumed to not be the final choice.
```
Nit: missing period.

> *Note:* This RFC leaves the determination of what lints will be `nit` by

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
*Note:* This RFC leaves the determination of which lints will be `nit` by
```

Author: Fixed in bd812a2

> default to the respective teams.  Any lints referenced in this document are

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
default to the respective teams. Any lints referenced in this document are
```

Author: Two spaces *used* to be the expected practice, at least in the US.  Hard habit to break.

This wasn't the only case of it.  Changed both in 6ee328c

for illustrating the intent of this feature and how teams could reason about
this new lint level.

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

By its name and literal usage, the `warn` level is non-blocking.
However, most projects treat `warn` as a soft-error.

> It doesn't block for local development but CI blocks it from being merged.

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
It doesn't block for local development, but CI blocks it from being merged.
```

This is an attempt to balance final correctness with rapid prototyping.

> Requiring "warnings clean" code also avoids warnings fatigue where warnings

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
Requiring "warnings-clean" code also avoids warnings fatigue where warnings
```

make it hard to see "relevant" compiler output, and make a codebase feel
lower-quality in a way that does not inspire people or invite people to
help solve the problem.
This convention is not new with the Rust community; many C++ projects have take

> this approach before Rust came to be with "warnings clean" being a goal for

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
this approach before Rust came to be with "warnings-clean" being a goal for
```

## Example workflow

*This will be reported from perspective of a Cargo user.*

Rust users will have a new `nit` lint level for providing optional coding feedback.

If introduced today without any changes to levels for existing lints,
a maintainer may decide that they want `clippy::let_and_return` to be optional.
In their `Cargo.toml`, they would set:
```toml
[package.lints.clippy]
let_and_return = "nit"
```

A contributor may write:
```rust
fn foo() -> String {
    if condition() {
        let semantically_meaningful_name_one = bar();
        semantically_meaningful_name_one
    } else {
        let semantically_meaningful_name_two = baz();
        semantically_meaningful_name_two
    }
}
```

Rust-analyzer would give them feedback that they wrote extraneous code that could be reduced down,
with a suggested fix.
However, they feel the variable name is acting as a form of documentation and want to keep it.

When the contributor checks for lints, they run
```console
$ cargo clippy
   Compiling foo
    Finished `foo` profile [optimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 15.85s
```
No lints reported.

A non-rust-analyzer user could run the following to look for feedback:
```console

> $ CARGO_BUILD_NITS=nit cargo clippy

Reviewer 14: I'm surprised that opt-in to show the lints is so verbose. For users who don't use an IDE, this may be tiresome to type. The verbosity of the env var could make users set it always in their default env (bashrc, etc.), and that would defeat the point of them being hidden by default.

I'd like something like `cargo clippy --nits`

Author: > I'd like something like cargo clippy --nits

fdd40215 made note of why CLI control is deferred out of this RFC.

> Even when a CI is configured to display the nits, I still want to run them locally so that I can open the affected files easily (I can click file paths in my terminal), and can check whether I've fixed all instances without having to push code and wait for the CI.

I feel like that will also run into the following [drawback](https://github.com/epage/rfcs/blob/nit-lint-level/text/3730-nit-lint-level.md#drawbacks):

> Users running CARGO_BUILD_NITS=nit cargo clippy will have a hard time finding what lints are relevant for their change. If we had a way to filter lints by part of the API or by "whats new since run X", then that could be resolved.

## Rustc

Rustc focuses on the mechanics of a new, visible lint level `nit`.

Add support for the new lint:
```rust
#![nit(deprecated)]
```
```console
$ rustc --nit deprecated ...
```
```console
$ rustc -Ndeprecated ...
```

These will be rendered like other lint levels with a diagnostic level and coloring that conveys the non-blocking, helpful nature.
For example, this could be rendered like a `note:` or `help:` diagnostic level.

Rustc will have a dynamic lint group of all `nit`s, much like `warnings` is all lints at level `warn` at the time of processing, `-Anits`.

## Clippy

Like Rustc, Clippy would focus on the mechanism.
Add support for the new lint:
```rust
#![nit(deprecated)]
```
```console
$ rustc --nit clippy::pedantic ...
```
```console
$ rustc -Nclippy::pedantic ...
```

These will be rendered like Rustc.

These will be part of Rustc's dynamic lint group, much like `warnings`.

## Cargo

Cargo implements the semantics for this to be a first-class non-blocking lint level.

Add support for the new lint:
```toml
[workspace.lints.rust]
deprecated = "nit"
```

A new config field will be added to mirror `build.warnings`:

### `build.nits`

- Type: string
- Default: `allow`

> - Environment: `CARGO_BUILD_NITS`

Reviewer 14: `CARGO_BUILD_NITS` sounds like an env var for `cargo build` specifically.

Is `cargo build` supposed to react to this? That would be weird, because `cargo clippy` is already the tool for nitpicking, so there would be two separate clippys in Cargo with different UI and different nitpicks.

Author: This is an open question on `CARGO_BUILD_WARNINGS`, see rust-lang/cargo#14802 which this builds on top of.  I made that explicit in 852f0611

Controls how Cargo handles nits. Allowed values are:

- `nit`: warnings are emitted as warnings.

> - `allow`: warnings are hidden (default).

Reviewer 14: Another option that would be interesting to me is to display nits only if there are no other warnings to display.

Unnecessary nits/lints are annoying when they reduce signal-to-noise ratio of compiler's output (e.g. displays 100 lints and 1 error, and I have to scroll through all the lints to find the error).

But if there's nothing else to report, then nits aren't getting in the way of anything.

Author: I've added this to the alternatives in 1d7463fe.

I think showing these is problematic even when there are no warnings or errors.  I suspect people will be annoyed by how "chatty" cargo would be (I know I'm annoyed with how chatty it is without warnings and I've heard from others who are more extreme and want no output on success) and that this will also nerd snipe people into addressing these.

# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

> Rust-analyzer might be limited in what it can do through LSP to avoid overwhelming the user with `nit`s.

Reviewer 14: I don't like nits being left to IDEs. 

Rust-Analyzer/LSP are very biased towards MS Visual Studio Code. Where LSP doesn't support something, Rust Analyzer uses VSCode-specific workarounds, but other editors are left out. Other editors usually have sub-par experience. Sublime Text for example loses a lot of fidelity when displaying Rust's errors (in most cases it can't show a connection between a span and a note).

The problem is that Rust Analyzer uses VS Code as the reference implementation of LSP, and doesn't want to test and work around issues in other editors. Developers of the other IDEs/editors also just want to support LSP, and don't want to add features/workarounds for Rust Analyzer specifically. This means that any issues with how Rust errors are displayed in an LSP IDE end up being nobody's responsibility: RA tells to file bugs with your editor, and the editor says to file bugs with RA.

Reviewer 11: Yeah, I don't use Rust Analyzer, due to a bunch of different reasons: I've historically always worked on larger codebases, often with custom build systems, and IDEs have never been great at those. I also use Sublime Text and Rust IDE support has always lagged there. Both these problems are not as big a deal as they used to be now, but at this point ten years of writing Rust have made my existing workflows comparably efficient to using an IDE and I don't wish to put effort into switching now.

Github [tracks these alerts across runs](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/code-scanning/integrating-with-code-scanning/sarif-support-for-code-scanning#providing-data-to-track-code-scanning-alerts-across-runs).

These can also be implemented manually with any setup.
For example, in a large, corporate, legacy C++ code base that [epage](https://github.com/epage/)
worked with, a linter used a similar database to track what lints were "new" and reported those back to
[ReviewBoard](https://www.reviewboard.org/).

## Choosing lint levels

When creating a lint or overriding a default lint level,
its important to consider the semantics, something like:

`error` is for hard errors that even prevent reporting of errors further in the build, running of tests, etc.
This should be reserved for when there is no point building or testing anything further because of how broken the code is.

`warn` generally has the semantics of a soft-error.
Its non-blocking locally but will be blocked when the code is merged upstream.
This should be used when eventual correctness or consistency is desired.

> `nit` is for coding suggestions for users that may or may not improve the code or may not need to be done yet.

Reviewer 15: I find this definition of the levels is quite vague.  Also, as @Manishearth [notes](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3730#issuecomment-2489677425), clippy and rusttc have very different interpretations of lint levels already.

I find the example of `clippy::needless_borrow` illuminating.  In projects where I'm in charge of the lint policy, I always allow that lint.  The needless borrow is sometimes helpful at the call site to signal to the reader that a borrow is occurring.  Also, during development and refactoring, the types change back and forth, and the `&` becomes alternately necessary, and redundant.  IME this lint leads to needless textual churn.

Similar arguments could be made about many (many most) lints in clippy's `complexity` category.  That lint category likes to normalise the code as much as possible, subject to preserving the meaning of the current code to the compiler.  But that *doesn't* necessarily preserve meaning of this code fragment in a slightly different context (ie, after future changes), nor the meanings implied to human readers.

Are we proposing to downgrade `clippy::complexity` to `nit`, then?  If not, why not?

Author: > Are we proposing to downgrade clippy::complexity to nit, then? If not, why not?

The RFC states

> Note: This RFC leaves the determination of what lints will be nit by
default to the respective teams. Any lints referenced in this document are
for illustrating the intent of this feature and how teams could reason about
this new lint level.

Trying to cover every lint in this RFC and get buy-in from each of the teams is a recipe for endless bike shedding.  It seems much better to let the individual teams decide this according to their practice and give them room to experiment and iterate.
